# React JS
- A node module.
- Creates web pages with JavaScript instead of HTML.
- HTML web pages are static - they don't change.
- JavaScript web pages are dynamic - they can change.

### Installation
- `npm init`
- `npm install react react-dom`

### Setup
1. Create `index.html` and add boilerplate tags.
2. Create `index.js` and connect it to `index.html`: <script src="index.js" defer></script>. `defer` loads the script after the HTML file has rendered. 
3. Import and use React package:
   ```
   import React from "react"
   import { createRoot} from "react-dom/client";
   ```
   'createRoot` needs an HTML element.

4. React renders the object into the specified root element. 

### React preview 
- Render plain HTML with React.
- Output a variable.
- Add a <button > with a click handler.
- Add a <form> with a submit handler.npm 

```
import React from "react";
import handleClick from "./utils/handleClick";
import handleSubmit from "./utils/handleSubmit";

const message = "Amazing world!";
const root = createRoot(window.bodyTag);
root.render(
<main>
    <h1>Hello React</h1>
    <h2>Start editing to see some magic hap</h2>
    <h3>{message}</h3>
    <button onClick={handleClick}>Click</button>
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <input/>
        <input type="button"></input>        
    </form>
</main>
) ;
```

```
export default function handleSubmit(event = new Event()) {
    event.preventDefault();
    console.log(event);
```

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <title></title>
    <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" 
    rel="stylesheet" integrity="sha384-QWTKZyjpPEjISv5WaRU9OFeRpok6YctnYmDr5pNlyT2bRjXh0JMhjY6hW+ALEwIH" 
    crossorigin="anonymous">
    <script src="index.js" defer></script>
</head>
<body>
    <header>
    </header>
    <main>
        <body id="bodyTag">

        </body>

    </main>
    <footer>
    </footer>
</body>
</html>
```


```
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";

const root = createRoot(window.bodyTag);
root.render(<h1>Hello, world!</h1>); 
```

### Using React with Webpack
- React is an external module.
- Webpack can make external modules work in the browser.
- 
1. Install webpack into the React workspace.
2. Set up the Webpack folder structure `src/index.js`.
3. Let `index.html` use the `dist/main.js` instead.
4. Try to render the program in the browser.

### Babel
- HTML is not valid JavaScript.
- HTML must be compiled or converted to useable JavaScript.
- Babel is a JavaScript compiler.
- It can compile HMI into browser-compatible JavaScript.

1. View the Babel website https://babeljs.io/.
2. Insert HTML into the online compiler to convert it to JavaScript.
3. Copy the code into your React program and run it.

### Comping HTML to JavaScript
- Copy the HTML and paste it into the Babel website.
- Copy the compiled code into
index.js.

### Installing Babel
- `npm install --save-dev @babel/core @babel/cli`

### Babel command line
- Provides instructions to the terminal for how to compile Babel with React
`npx babel ./src/index.js --presets=@babel/preset-react --out-file ./src/index.babel.js` 

1. `npx babel` 
2. Specify the file to compile `./src/index.js`.
3. Specify the instructions `--presets=@babel/preset-react`.
4. Specify the output file `--out-file ./src/index.babel.js`.

#### Index.js
```
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import React from "react";
const root = createRoot (window.bodyTag) ;
root.render(/*#__PURE_*/ React.createElement("h1", null, "Hello))
```

### React with Webpack and Babel
- Use the compiled Babel file with Webpack.
- Updating changes can be tedious with the command line.
  
1. Make changes. 
2. Let `index.js` contain the code compiled with Babel.
3. Re-compile with Babel.
4. Re-bundle with `npx webpack`.
5. Render the React project in the browser.

### Manually using the file generated by Babel
1. Rename `index.js` to `index.original.js`.
2. Rename `index.babel.js` to `index.js`.
3. Run `npx webpack`.

### Babel configuration file
- A configuration file can be used to specify compile instructions.
  
1. Create babel.config.json.
2. Add "presets": [ "@babel/preset-react"].
3. Make changes, re-compile with Babel, and re-bundle with Webpack.
4. Render the React project in the browser.

### Webpack and Babel
- A node module or package that allows for automation of babel compiling.
- Gives Webpack the ability to compile with Babel.

1. `npm install babel-loader`
2. Use Webpack file structure and make changes.
3. `npx webpack --module-rules-use babel-loader`
4. Render the React project in the browser.

### Configure Webpack to use Babel to compile
-  A configuration file can be used to specify bundling instructions.
  
1. Create webpack.config.json file.
2. Add a JSON object corresponding to `-module-rules-use babel-loader`.
3. Make changes, save,  and then run `npx webpack`in the terminal.
   
```json
{
    "module":{
         "rules": [
            {
            "use": "babel-loader"
 }
        ]
    }
}
``` 
### Webpack watching
-  Webpack can watch for any changes to index.js.
  
   1. Run`npx webpack --watch`in the terminal.
   2. Make changes. 
   3. Render the React project in the browser.
   4. Press CTRL + C to exit Webpack watcher.
   
### Configure Webpack to automatically watch for changes
1. Edit  `webpack.config.json` file.
2. Add `"watch": true`.
3. Then run `npx webpack` in the terminal.
   
```json
{
    "module":{
         "rules": [
            {
            "use": "babel-loader"
         }
        ]
    },
    "watch": true
}
```
### Getting Started with React
Exercise:
Render plain HTML with React
- Output a variable
- Add a < button> with a click handler
- Add a < form> with a submit handler
Notes:
```javascript
<p>The message is: {message}</p>
```
- Use curly braces to escape to JavaScript
- Extensions like `.js` are not necessary for the import statement anymore because webpack takes care of this by default
- Event handlers are callback functions (without parentheses)
- The event variable is automatically passed to event handlers

### Webpack--Debugger mode
`npx webpack--mode development`
- By default, Webpack disables the debugger with production mode
- To enable the debugger, set the mode to development
- Exercise:
  1. Try to use the debugger in production mode. 
    - CTRL + C to exit watch mode
  2. `npx webpack--mode development`
  3. Now try to use the debugger

###  Configure Webpack to automatically start in developer mode
  1. Edit `webpack.config.json`
  2. Add `"mode": "development"`
  3. Save the file and then run`npx webpack` in the terminal
     - [If this works, it will stop at the debugger.]

### Webpack source map
- Some code in the debugger might look different than the original code
- A source map provides instructions how to convert the mangled code back to the original code
1. Add an internal module to the code
2. Start debugging and observe the internal module
3. `npx webpack --devtool source-map`
4. Debug and observe the internal module
{
    "module":{
         "rules": [
            {
            "use": "babel-loader"
         }
        ]
    },
    "watch": true,
    "mode": "development",
    "devtool": "source-map"
}

### React package (add an Update to React Day 3 Notes)
- React uses 2 packages:
  1.  `react`-- The main react functions and classes
    - Contains the methods for converting HTML into JavaScript
  2.  `react-dom`--More functions and classes to use react
    - Contains functions for manipulating the DOM
    
### DOM--Document Object Model
  - Represents HTML as a tree of objects.
  - Represented by the document object.
  - The function `createRoot` is from `react-dom`.
  - The function `createRoot` manipulates the DOM.

### Embedding a YouTube video


